Training materials guide (#1063)
nf-core/nf-co.re: markdown/developers/training_guide.md

```html
<div class="ratio ratio-16x9">
    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/xuNYATGFuw4" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
```

#### Add key points.

Key points serve as a summary of what to do, and are important take home messages from the guide.

#### Add supporting links.

Provide links to where the reader can get additional support, or useful further reading.

#### Format your document.

Markdown must be formatted according to the rules set by a linting tool called _Prettier_ (<https://prettier.io/>).
We recommend using an extension for your code editor to fix markdown for you automatically when you save a file - there are Prettier plugins [for most editors](https://prettier.io/docs/en/editors.html), including [VSCode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode).
Alternatively you can install and run the Prettier command line tool: `prettier -w .`

#### Add your guide to the website navigation

> For now, new guides need to be added to the website navigation manually.

Author: Erm, @ewels, how is this done? I didn't see where to edit. I was expecting a `_site.yml` or something.

Reviewer: Do you _really_ want to know? It's not pretty 😆  Basically just has to be manually added to the PHP for the header and footer:

https://github.com/nf-core/nf-co.re/blob/c6b04680ad8d6dfd6a3981d90f9dc51543b9acb4/includes/header.php#L171

https://github.com/nf-core/nf-co.re/blob/c6b04680ad8d6dfd6a3981d90f9dc51543b9acb4/includes/footer.php#L76

Generally speaking people write the files then either me or @mashehu add it to the nav 😆 

But yes, a `_site.yml` or something would be better. Or even just globbing the markdown directories and building the nav from that, using a YAML front-matter on the file to get stuff like the short title. Plenty of inspiration available from static site generators [like Hugo](https://gohugo.io/content-management/urls/#set-url-in-front-matter) etc.

Author: La la la, I'll take it out then, and let you guys take care of it. I don't think we should get new comers delving into this too.

Reviewer: Agreed 👍🏻 I was hoping to get to this before the hackathon but it hasn't happened. I suspect that it might be the main thing I work on to be honest, as part of https://github.com/nf-core/nf-co.re/issues/352

---
title: Training material guide
subtitle: A guide to writing instructions for training material.
---

# Contributing a training guide to nf-core

Thank you for helping us write a guide to using an aspect of nf-core.

> ## Questions

Reviewer 2: I agree that "questions" as title is a bit ambiguous.

> ## Questions

Reviewer 3: well, in this guideline we can only recommend people add some form of assessment in their tutorial, nothing more. depending on the tutorial then, one would chose the appropriate questions.
we could recommend something like this:
- ask a question you believe might be useful to check the understanding of your tutorial
- provide the solution using a collapsible section, which in Markdown you can write as

```
<details>
  <summary>Click to expand!</summary>
  
  text of your solution here
  here

</details>
```

- [Questions](#questions)
- [Objectives](#objectives)
- [Glossary](#glossary)
- [Before I begin](#before-i-begin)
- [How to](#how-to)
  - [Bytesize](#bytesize-talk)
  - [Walkthrough](#walkthrough)
- [Key points](#key-points)

> - [References](#references)

Reviewer: The website will automatically generate a table of contents in the sidebar. Since we added that I have generally stopped having a manual ToC at the top like this, as it's easy to for the links to break..

Author: Ah, nice. I was hoping that was the case. I just wasn't sure.

## Questions

- How can I contribute a training guide to nf-core?
- Where do I put the guide?
- How do I structure content?

## Objectives

- Learn how to structure an nf-core guide.
- Know where to submit the pull request.

## Glossary

<details>
    <summary>Click here to expand the glossary of potentially unfamiliar terms</summary>
    - **Learning Objective:** A predictive statement describing the specific outcomes that a training session is intended to achieve.
    - **Key point:** An important take home message.
    - **Cognitive load:** This relates to the amount of information that working memory can hold at one time.
    - **Fork a repository:** This makes a copy of the repository to your personal GitHub workspace.
    - **Make a branch:** A branch is another version of the files in your repository, including a history of how files were changed from the start of the branch to the current state of files.
</details>

## Before I begin

> A checklist of what you need to begin.

Reviewer: Might be good to mention that everything is markdown, so you need to know that. For the hackathon we are recommending that people go to https://www.markdowntutorial.com/ if they're new to it.

> - Ask on #training about the guide you'd like to contribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ask on the nf-core Slack [`#training` channel](https://nfcore.slack.com/channels/training) about the guide you'd like to contribute.
```

- Make an issue on [nf-core website issues](https://github.com/nf-core/nf-co.re/issues) describing what you want to do, and assign yourself.

> - GitHub account.

Reviewer: You can't make an issue without a GitHub account 😉

## How to

### Bytesize talk

> There is no bytesize talk at present, but if you'd like present one, please make a suggestion on the [Slack #bytesize channel](https://nfcore.slack.com/channels/bytesize).

Reviewer: About what? Creating training materials?

```suggestion
There is no bytesize talk about how to create training materials at present, but if you'd like present one, please make a suggestion on the Slack [`#bytesize` channel](https://nfcore.slack.com/channels/bytesize).
```

Author: In this case yes, but it was a copy of the guidelines below. I was attempting to make it as general as possible to reduce work after editing the copy.

### Walkthrough

#### Use this as a template.

> Use this file `https://github.com/nf-core/nf-co.re/markdown/developers/training_guide.md` as a template to guide you.

Reviewer: There's currently no mention of adding the new docs to the website navigation. However, I have been contemplating changing how this works anyway as it's a faff (currently need to do it manually - would be better done based on the discovered markdown files, maybe with some YAML front matter).

So technically it's missing from the docs here but it's very likely to change soon.

Reviewer: Stuff still works without the link, it's just that you need to enter the URL manually.

Author: I decided on this because a navigation rework should be part of the group 4 task. People need somewhere to put the files until that is complete. 
But in case no decision on how to rework the navigation is made, I guess instructions need to be added on how to manually link it. 
Is this directory suitable to dump the training matter, or should it be put somewhere else?

> 1. If you've not done so, make a fork of the [nf-core website repository](https://github.com/nf-core/nf-co.re/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make a fork of the [nf-core website repository](https://github.com/nf-core/nf-co.re/).
```

> 2. Make a new branch from the `master` branch in your fork named after the guide you indend to submit e.g., `gitpod_training_guide`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Make a new branch from the `master` branch in your fork and check it out. Name it after the guide you intend to submit. For example: `git checkout -b gitpod_training_guide`
```

> 3. Make a copy of the `training_guide.md` with an appropriate name to use as your skeleton.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Make a copy of the `markdown/developers/training_guide.md` with an appropriate name to use as your skeleton.
```

#### Add questions.

> Include between 1-3 questions your guide is intended to answer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Include between 1-3 questions your guide is intended to answer.
Use the _Questions_ header at the top of this page.
```

Just to clarify that they shouldn't be added here..

#### Add objectives.

Objectives are intended to describe the outcomes someone reading your guide should be able to do once they've read through it.
The objectives also function as a checklist of things that should be part of the guide.

#### Add a glossary.

The glossary should define potentially unfamilar terms to a novice trying to use your guide for the first time.

> #### Prepare your reader.

Reviewer: Would these headings be better as bullet points? They're basically all boil down to "fill in the sections at the top of this file".

Author: I think they would be better as sections because then it's easier to include visual aids and other stuff. This was a very quick mock up, and would likely benefit from more detail.

Make a checklist of what your reader needs to have done before they begin using this guide.

#### Add the content.

Under the `### Guide` section, add a step by step walkthrough of what you intend to demonstrate. Remember to include visual aids if it will help understanding.

Initially it is unlikely there will be a bytesize talk to link to, so leave a message that one can be contributed.
If a bytesize talk exists, then provide a link using this html under the `### Bytesize talk` section. Update the `src` URL to the correct youtube link.

```html
<div class="ratio ratio-16x9">
    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/xuNYATGFuw4" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

> ```

Author: @ewels Do we have a simpler ( less html ) method of including the bytesize link?

Reviewer: We do within event pages, but not with generic markdown.

It would be fairly easy to add a custom function to parse this though. For example, having a YouTube URL on its own line surrounded by blank lines - switch this for an embed. I think other sites do something like this (eg. the WordPress editor used to). Our custom PHP markdown parser function already does a bunch of similar things.

Would you mind adding an issue about it?

Author: https://github.com/nf-core/nf-co.re/issues/1064

#### Add key points.

Key points serve as a summary of what to do, and are important take home messages from the guide.

#### Add supporting links.

Provide links to where the reader can get additional support, or useful further reading.

#### Format your document.

> Format your document using the `prettier` VS code extension. This can be performed either in VS code, or in Gitpod.

Reviewer: Or as a command line tool: https://prettier.io/
```suggestion
Markdown must be formatted according to the rules set by a linting tool called _Prettier_ (<https://prettier.io/>).
We recommend using an extension for your code editor to fix markdown for you automatically when you save a file - there are Prettier plugins [for most editors](https://prettier.io/docs/en/editors.html), including [VSCode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode).
Alternatively you can install and run the Prettier command line tool: `prettier -w .`
```

GitPod is just VSCode, right? Or does it have some specific Prettier integration?

Author: The GitPod front is a VSCode clone I think, so I believe there are some differences to the read VSCode. I'm not clear exactly what though, although one difference is where extensions are installed from. The GitPod yaml though includes the Prettier extension.
